# 2018-05-02 13:38:05

Initial training log.

## Lesson 6

Most important lesson. 60% of test questions come from this section.

## NOTAMS - Notices to airmen

<https://www.notams.faa.gov/dinsQueryWeb/>
Weather briefs

## TFR's - temporary flight restrictions

<http://tfr.faa.gov/tfr2/list.html>
<https://skyvector.com/>

*** Must Check NOTAMS and TFR's before every flight! ***

## 6.2 obstacles

AGL vs MSL

Example:
Top number Hight above sea level MSL - mean sea level
() number Height above ground AGL - above ground level

Guide wires from towers can extend 1,500 feet horizontally from towers. Stay away 2,000 feet.

## 6.3 Airport traffic patterns

Runways are numbered according to compass direction (magnetic north) 09 is east, 27 is west, etc...

Climbing out on the "Upwind". Standard traffic at airport is left hand traffic. 90' turn "left crosswind"

When they make another 90' turn they are going "Downwind" parallel to the runway.

Next lefthand turn called "base". Called the "Final" leg

Air trafic radio
<https://www.amazon.com/Icom-IC-A14-VHF-Band-transceiver/dp/B003EN1VDK/>

## 6.4 FCC Frequencies

Most common are 2.4GHZ and 5.8GHZ. Open frequencies.

Unlicensed bands are controlled by FCC

Lost link and flyaways. Check manual before you operate UAS. Must use frequency bands that are open or obtain license from FCC to use other frequencies.

## NTIA Privacy

Review NTIA best practices for private or commercial use of Uas

Other laws such as state and local laws may apply as well.

## 6.6 VFR sectional charts 

*** This is a must review video ***

File located in files folder <../files/Aeronautical-Sectional-Symbols.pdf>

UC means Under Construction

Yellow Area is congested (lots of buildings, town, etc..)

AWOS - Automated weather frequency

*L means pilot controlled lighting.

C Common traffic frequency

Class E airspace starts at 1,200 ft

VR visual training route
IR instrument training route at 1,500 ft

Mode C Veil - transponder projects altitude in planes (manned pilot)
ADSB Technology - good to know for later 

Faded majenta circle starts at 700

*** Popular question: ***

Look at class D effective hours. What frequency would you monitor when they are closed? When the tower closes, still use the same frequency! It stays the same. Does not matter if the controller is home. All pilots still use that frequency.

What happens inside a restricted area? They don't tell you! (on the map). generally there are invisible hazards to you the pilot. Like weapons tests, missiles, alien lazers, you are a practice target GTFO!

What happens in MOA? Fast planes hauling ass all over and doing cool shit. Low fast flying aerobatics.

## Longitude and Latitude

Know how to find stuff by Lon and Lat.

## 6.8 Mission Based Charting

*** Another important one ***

Airplane lands into the numbers. If they are landing runway 13 they are headed direction 130'

Be aware of decimals in Lon Lat. Example

46.9 = 6x9 = 54 minutes

